README.md, before:

# terraform-vault-backend

A Vault backend for Terraform implemented as an HTTP server.

Built using [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/).

## Installation

Install using [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/):
```sh
poetry install
```

## Usage

### 1. Running the server

#### Running it directly
  ```sh
  poetry run python -m src
  ```
#### Using a poetry shell
  ```sh
  poetry shell
  python -m src
  ```
This will run the backend with Vault defaults.
Please refer to `python -m src --help` for configuration options.

### 2. Configuring Terraform backend

Example configuration, assuming of the backend to be 
hosted at `https://example.com`:

```hcl
terraform {
  backend "http" {
    address = "https://example.com/state" 
    lock_address = "https://example.com/lock"
    unlock_address = "https://example.com/lock"
    lock_method = "POST"
    unlock_method = "DELETE"
    username = "terraform"
  }
}
```

**NOTE:**
For local testing or an otherwise non-TLS setup, you might need to use `skip_cert_verification = true`. 

Refer to the [Terraform documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/settings/backends/http)
for additional options. 

### 3. Running Terraform

To authenticate to the Vault backend, you need to send your VAULT_TOKEN with your
Terraform invocations. How do we do this? By passing it through HTTP Basic Auth:

```shell
# alternative no.1: setting it directly
$ export TF_HTTP_PASSWORD="your-vault-token-here..."
# alternative no.2: using the value of pre-existing VAULT_TOKEN 
$ export TF_HTTP_PASSWORD="$VAULT_TOKEN"
$ terraform apply
...
```

More info on Vault authentication can be found at [Vault's official documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/tutorials/getting-started/getting-started-authentication).

## Development

The [Poe](https://poethepoet.natn.io/) task runner is used 
for development tasks, such as linting and tests.

### Running with root
Elevated tasks, such as docker tests, might becomes tricky to run with poe. By default, `sudo` sanitizes your path, 
which makes you lose out on the `poe` binary. Here's one way of fixing that problem:

```shell
$ sudo env PATH="$PATH" poe ...
```

Commit message:

Specify secrets_path in the URL
Support multiple tenants in the same mount path.
This is only safe if the tenants are segregated by different policies.

Also removed integration tests to minimise maintenance cost.
The test strategy going forward is to unit tests as much as possible

README.md, after:

# terraform-vault-backend

A Vault backend for Terraform implemented as an HTTP server.

Built using [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/).

## Installation

Install using [Poetry](https://python-poetry.org/):
```sh
poetry install
```

## Usage

### 1. Running the server

#### Running it directly
  ```sh
  poetry run python -m src
  ```
#### Using a poetry shell
  ```sh
  poetry shell
  python -m src
  ```
This will run the backend with Vault defaults.
Please refer to `python -m src --help` for configuration options.

### 2. Configuring Terraform backend

Example configuration, assuming of the backend to be 
hosted at `https://example.com`:

```hcl
terraform {
  backend "http" {
    address = "https://example.com/state/<path>" 
    lock_address = "https://example.com/lock/<path>"
    unlock_address = "https://example.com/lock/<path>"
    lock_method = "POST"
    unlock_method = "DELETE"
    username = "*" # unused but must be defined
  }
}
```

`<path>` is the path to use within the configured mountpoint.

**NOTE:**
For local testing or an otherwise non-TLS setup, you might need to use `skip_cert_verification = true`. 

Refer to the [Terraform documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/settings/backends/http)
for additional options. 

### 3. Running Terraform

To authenticate to the Vault backend, you need to send your `VAULT_TOKEN` with your
Terraform invocations. How do we do this? By passing it through HTTP Basic Auth:

```shell
$ export TF_HTTP_PASSWORD="${VAULT_TOKEN:?"
$ terraform apply
...
```

More info on Vault authentication can be found at [Vault's official documentation](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/tutorials/getting-started/getting-started-authentication).
